---
title: Technocracy
date: 2020-07-10T09:19:51.000-04:00
draft: true
toc: true
tags:
  - Technology
  - Politics
---

# What was Technocracy?

The Technocratic political movement emerged in the 1930s as Scientists and
Engineers proposed a better and brighter way forward, paved by the relentless
application of the scientific method to the problems of modern society.

Horrified by the first Great War of 1914-1918, and confronted with the Great
Depression from 1929-1939, technologists proposed a bureaucracy with members
selected based on merit and specialized knowledge, and not necessarily by
election. By treating all of society's social and technical issues as
engineering problems, the most fair and efficient solutions could be produced,
and the top-heavy and slow legislative process could be deprecated.

A monad, representing the balance between production and consumption, was used
by Howard Scott as the logo for Technocracy Inc. Interestingly, the monad is
also associated with many philosophical and religious beliefs, particularly
_Gnosticism_. Se also _Monism_.

The Government of Canada temporarily banned Technocracy in 1940, allegedly due
to opposition to the Second World War. An archive of Technocracy material from
this era is stored at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, Canada. To my
delight, Technocracy Inc. still hosts a website at
[technocracyinc.org](https://www.technocracyinc.org/)

Though allegedly stopped in its tracks and ground into the dust, the core ideas
behind Technocracy have been kept alive and nurtured, first by the American
Industrial Complex, namely IBM, Xerox, and HP, and more recently by the Silicon
Valley technology giants.


By the end of this article, I seek to answer the question: _for better or worse,
what impact have the Technocratic ideas had on our modern era of computing?_


# Heart of Darkness 

As of late, rather than the purely analytical reasoning of technology seeping
into the convoluted and biased world of politics and social sciences, the
doublethink of these domains has been seeping backwards into computing.

The realm of computers has always been rather secular, save for the rare
divinely inspired program, or even entire operating systems like _Temple OS_
Movements based on lofty idealism like the Free Software movement exist to
increase the accessibility of software, and grant users the right to know what
the software running on their system _is actually doing,_ have gained some
traction but mostly been co-opted and spun off into more business-palatable
variants. Aside from these rare instances, the rather Gnostic realm of computing has remained untouched by politics.

Perhaps the change has been occurring for longer than I know, but I can say with
relative certainty that the world of software has become a much darker place in
recent years.


# The Purge 

If everybody has an equal capacity for applying logic and holding complex data
structures in their heads, then it is entirely fair to assert that hard work is
the answer, and that anybody can be a successful computer programmer.

However, this is blatantly false, as evidenced by observations as simple as
brain volume, or as universal as the g factor of intelligence. Expecting every
person on this earth to be able to perform equally mentally is akin to expecting
a paraplegic child in a wheelchair to be able to run with his classmates.

All of the best programmers that I know, while potentially having fringe
political opinions, will co-operate happily with just about everybody under the
sun as long as they share the core programmers' motivation of making magic
within the machine. I personally have a great antipathy for any sort of moral
posturing that positions groups of people as greater or lesser out on the field.
The only thing that should matter when programming is the collective
accomplishment of the goals of the project.

One of my colleagues has a particularly interesting Twitter account, with views
that, if we were to speak about them, I would vehemently disagree with, and
attempt to persuade him otherwise. Hell, that's politics. His work and feedback
on my work are so useful that I dare not disrupt our excellent working
relationship by doing this.

While I cannot claim to be any sort of philosopher or politician, I can speak
from my view as a Computer Engineer, and generally as someone who regularly
deals with the art and science of computers and digital logic.

While programming, we must keep God's moral principles in our hearts, or we risk
losing our humanity to daemons of our own creation.

# Neon Genesis: Evangelion and the Human Instrumentation Project

The first superintelligence will be born by connecting a greater percentage of
the human population to a cloud computing engine. Google is effectively NERV.
