---
date: 2019-08-12T21:12:53-04:00
title: "Build Static Sites with Hugo"
tags:
- Programming
- Golang 
---

This site is written with the *Hugo* static site generator. It is a blast to
use. Previously, *Jekyll* was my tool of choice, but here are two reasons why I
now choose to use Hugo over Jekyll:

1. Speed
1. Ease of installation

While these two reasons alone may not seem like a good enough reason to switch,
I promise that I'll justify my stance in a thousand words or less!

## Speed

Hugo is fast. I'm certain that you didn't picture the right thing when I said
*fast*, so I'd like you to imagine a bullet train, inside another bullet train,
inside another bullet train with fire painted on the sides. Yeah, *that fast!*

When writing articles, it's nice to see a preview of your current work, just to
verify that what you are writing looks nice on the page, and your code snippets
aren't too long. On Jekyll (though I've certainly bogged it down with lots of
extra processing,) a rebuild can take nearly a minute to finish. Go rebuilds
nearly instantaneously, and reloads your webpage to boot! Dramatically shorter
rebuilds don't sound like a huge benefit for a software tool designed to run
*once* and generate some files to sit on a disk, but a snap is still so much
nicer than a coffee break. I'm impatient sometimes.

## Ease of Installation

Jekyll is written in Ruby. Ruby is fantastic, but Ruby projects are often a pain to
babysit. Hugo is shipped as a standalone executable. This standalone
executable does not break or whine about outdated dependencies, it can just
be replaced when needed. Hugo wins (for basic sites.)


## Conclusion

Should you rewrite your old websites in *Hugo*? No, unless you actively maintain
the site and write new articles for it all the time. New projects should
absolutely be started in Hugo. Old work need not be converted unless the faster
rebuilds would save you time.

I hope my short opinion piece has done enough to convince you to use *Hugo* for
your new site!
