---
tags:
- Film Review
date: 2019-07-08T22:11:40-04:00
title: "Film Review: Equilibrium"
draft: true
---

As anybody who has ever spoken to me will know, I hold the writing of authors
Aldous Huxley and George Orwell in very high regard. Equilibrium, while it
didn't perform well in the Box Office, was thoroughly enjoyable and did a
fantastic job of mixing together elements from two of the greatest dystopian
novels ever written: Brave New World, and 1984.

The film touched me personally, as it is heavily centered around the themes of
repressing one's own humanity, and sacrificing the turmoil and chaos of a full
life for one of safety, conformity and regularity.

At the end of the review, I will draw parallels to our modern world.

**Spoiler alert.** I will be discussing the themes of this film in-depth and
sparing no plot details past this point.

# The State of Libra 

The protagonist of the film is John Preston, who works as a Cleric for the
city-state of Libra. Clerics are elite operators responsible for enforcing the
rules and regulations of the regime, utilizing the martial art *Gunkata*...
Think the matrix.

John Preston's society was formed from the ashes of the third world war, a
nuclear holocaust. The new society, designed to prevent another global conflict,
is built upon the chemical repression of emotions through the drug *Prozium.* It
is thought that, by sacrificing the chaos of emotion, war, murder and violence
will cease to exist. For a sizable portion of the world, this becomes reality;
citizens of Libra take timed doses of Prozium throughout the working week. As
far as I could tell, the handheld syringes were used twice a day. For these
people, life is simply a formality; they live and work in total harmony with
everybody around them, perfect citizens, all working in a similar way as to not
invoke jealousy. For the rest of the population, this is not the case.

Most art, literature, entertainment and is banned, as they can invoke emotions,
turning a user into a *thought-crimin...*, er, *sense-offender*. Sense-offenders
are considered as, at best, enemies of the state, and at worst, terrorists.

It is John Preston's duty to find and punish these sense offenders.

# Brief Summary of Plot

The film follows Grammaton Cleric Frist Class John Preston as he slowly wakes up
to the inhumanity of his society, and begins to feel for himself, a crime he is
trained to detect and punish.

While on a mission persuing terrorists, he notices his partner take a book of
poetry. Slowly, he realizes that his own partner is a sense offender, and ends
up killing him. Shortly thereafter, John accidentally breaks one of his doses of
Prozium, and begins to experience emotions.

Over the course of the film, John ceases to take Prozium entirely, while
attempting to maintain a cold and indifferent facade for his children and work
partner. He begins to, rather than performing his usual operations, act on his
newfound morality. This causes him many problems; refusing to kill people (and
puppies,) draws suspicion from his new partner. The Council have suspicions that
a Cleric is feeling.

Eventually this leads John to become a member of an underground resistance who
is plotting to kill *Father,* a Big-Brother-like figure who gives orders and
propaganda to society. An assasination plot is formed, but John Preston is
caught hours before as he begins weeping over the incineration of a woman whose
life he saved.

He turns his interrigation around, stating the crying was a ruse to reveal his
partner as a thought criminal (who wasn't.) He proceeds with the assasination
plans, but is caught at the last moment as Father (revealed to be a council
member, as the real Father had died,) explains to Preston that his fall into
feeling and infiltration into the resistance was planned, to crush the
resistance and bring order to the fringes of society.

John basically goes full matrix at this point and, using concealed pistols,
rampages through the council chambers, killing everybody, engaging in several
exciting sword/gunkata battles, and destroying the propaganda machines powering
all the displays in the city.

At the same moment, the underground destroys the Prozium distribution
facilities, and a riot begins. The Librian government has fallen.

# The Problem of Prozium
