---
tags:
date: 2019-12-05T15:27:36-05:00
title: "December's Collected Short Stories"
draft: true
toc: true
---



<br />

<br />

# No Problems Whatsoever

<br />

It began slowly.

Ever so slowly.

Here and there, rain would trickle through a gap in the mouldering pine shakes
and Frederick would hear a *tat* as a drop noiselessly slipped from a crack in
the ceiling and landed resonantly on the floorboards.

Turning with indifference, Frederick would coldly search the floorboards for the
culprit and, on identifying the drop of water, trace upwards to the ceiling
where the drop fell. He was getting tired of living in the old house he had
rented from a hag, who had promised the place had no problems whatsoever,
failing to mention the pests, leaks, heating problems and lack of property
maintenance staff.

He recalled the first time a droplet had fallen. It had been during a downpour;
the first gentle *tap* had turned into a dribbling *hiss* as a small waterfall 
materialized in the ceiling of his apartment.

Now, as he sat staring at his ceiling, he could only raise an eyebrow at the new
leak, as if to pleasantly greet a disliked colleague.

Turning back to his work, Frederick made a mental note to himself, scribbling
that he hated those like his greedy, lying land-lady, placing it on a pile with
many others, a heap of kindling that would only grow dry with the falling of
rain.

<br />

# June and the Ghost 

<br />

She held him like it was the last time she would ever see his stupid, beautiful
face, burying her head in his neck and breathing the smells of sweat and pine.
His strong arms gently, but firmly, were placed around her waist and back,
drawing her further into the embrace. She could feel the heat of his body
through her winter coat. The world grew dark around her as she melted into him,
like warm syrup over pancakes, like cream into coffee, like the darkest of
chocolates and the finest wine. Her soul was afloat on rivers of milk and honey.

As she lay awake one night, she yearned to burn again, like she had that day in fall.

The ceiling, dimly illuminated by the moonlight flowing through the open balcony
doors, stared back at her with apathy. A cool breeze blew across her body, half
covered by soft white linen, pleasant in the humid warmth of the summer night.
Why was John so distant, she wondered, thinking back to all the times when he
had been so sweet and loving. Perhaps there was someone else. Perhaps he wasn't
interested in her any longer. Perhaps he had never been interested in her.

She turned to touch his sleeping form.


<br />


<!-- https://www.gutenberg.org/files/13085/13085-h/13085-h.htm#page443 -->